. | RECEIVED
THE NATIONAL ACADEMIES APR 1 8 2000

Aer eth Stoo es, en Mele
tr eyo Ss rats C.R.E.C.
Perper cas Division of Health Premotion and Disease Prevention —
‘scan ont sear Stren a Redon

Christopher Coggins, Ph.D, DABT
Lorillard Tobacco Company
Senior Vice President,

Science and Technology

P.O. Box 21688

Greensboro, NC 27420-1688

April 17, 2000
Dear Dr. Coggins:

Enclosed please find follow-up questions from the Institute of Medicine Committee to
‘Assess the Science Base for Harm Reduction from Tobacco. We appreciate the material
you have supplied already and find ourselves, of course, with more questions. Some of
these are very specific and others are more conceptual

1, What evidence is there to conclude that there is or is not a threshold effect for cancer,
heart disease, adverse reproductive effects or lung disease caused by exposure to
tobacco or tobacco smoke, and what is the threshold level, if it exists.

2. Do the filters in your cigarettes, including reduced-tisk products under test-market or
development, contain fibers? If so, can these fibers become airborne in the smoke
inhaled by smokers? If so, to what extent does this occur? What is your estimate of
the potential risk to human health from these fibers?

3. What is the effect of removing a component or components of tobacco on the
‘qualitative and quantitative composition of the new species of smoke? What is the
empirical evidence that such alteration would be associated with reduced or altered
disease incidence in humans?

4, What are the criteria that should be used to assert that a specific form of tobacco or
tobacco product is less harmful than others? What biomarkers should be used to
assess the criteria?

5. What is the appropriate comparison product for reduced-risk products? A Kentucky
reference cigarette? The leading product as assessed by market share? The lowest-
risk product currently available? Each individual smoker’s brand at time of switching
to the new product? Each individual smoker’s dominant brand of his/her smoking
history?

9VLL8696

‘7101 Consuon Avenue, NW, Washo, OC 20416 Tepe (202343886 Forte) 362029 thacoanas ets
