rex Yelecopier 1021 3 8-20-85 ¢ 18332 ss eweeas

ai/es/isss sete 713205853 INTERGERY SA PASE 82

Or. A. Caria
Lab. iatosonsut

Vie Gate 12

26012 Cactalleone (CR)

‘Fax ca74/57682
Genoa, 18.6.1995

Dear Br. Cert,

+ Following the verbal azreemant reached with Or. taxtt! during the mesting on 12.6.95 in eur
laberatay. [am waning you brief datalla of the agread reeearch project.

‘Tale: Ves of pulmonary alveolar macrophages (PAM) fer the in vive comparison af
‘the gunctoxle potential of various expecures to enviranmental pollutants,

About 25 bronchoalvenlar lavage liquide wl be sellacted for proumelogics! diagnostic.

from nonsmoking patios over 18 years of age in the 8. Martine Hospital, Genes
Complete and dotaled cate histories will be recerded. particulary for date reiting to
sexpoturt fo attome ervienmerial poltarts (st work, #t home, exposure to urban and (raf
polutlen, exposure te ETS, hygienic atatus of the air at home atc.)

‘Samploa wth PAM pragert.at 285% wil be vead fo¢ ONA extreetien, The DNA wit be kept
- Tefrigeratad and whon enough amplee, hava haan collected the PVA adkiuces will be
‘examined by double-enrichmert peatlabeling witn =P (PY nucleases, bulandi).

It is antimaton that B manthe wf be nensed to collest the eampiea, about 3 months to perform
the poatiabaling, and 1-2 months to analyze tha data and prepare a publication, I any.
However, i fsancing le obotined in June 1898 a8 raquaeced below, we Intand ts conclude tha
‘experimental part of the werk By fe later than 26th Apil 1866.

It ig particularly amptasized that the reaults will ba expressed an adducte per 10 normal
‘uciectides and tha single adducts wdl undergo multivariate statetioal analyaie by esmperiscn
with me cane hietory data in order ta determine tha axlstance or Ret of any correlations
‘between mpomure and datacied genctoxic injury. The resuite cbeained may ba published In
an intermational peersreview ‘journal (Envircmental Heath Perepectvos, Cancer
EpAderisiogy Blomafears and Prevertion, Carcinogenasle, Canes Rearareh) am pravicunly
sdiacucaad and by agreement with your grous.

‘With regard te the official and adminiatratve aspects, | am enciasing the datada ralating 12
the contre ware the fuse nt bw nid, eneiting thet wach payment & mada.tathe socout

of the Pracinical Oncology Labarstery, Advanced Slotachnelogy Gantra, Tore @ I plana,
Diroster Pref. 8. Tome.

{im undaratood thet since the paymants are solely for reeaerch purposes, the ftal sum of
350,000 undar dincuanion wil ba conaldered we net ef legal tren.

HeLpstzosz

#
