DATE:

To:

SUBJECT:

FOR YOUR INFORMATION
Suzanne LeVan

September 20, 1993

Jim Morgan
Red Yellow Green

Here's what's hot this week. Short week with a few people traveling.
The weekly key activity highlight is regarding Events & FSI.

FSI's:

The only scheduled FST in the next 6 months is Slims: Turn on the Brights V-Wear
dropping Jan. 15th with coupon value varied by SWOT analysis. You saw the creative last
week.

Events:
Legends press conference today -- it was up to the last minute, but they worked all the
contract quirks & got everybody including the entertainers signed, First event is in April.
‘Bowling culminates in Reno on December 8-11th, The grass roots regional are
going on now -- Rebecca attending one in Westchester yesterday.
* B&H moving ahead with logistics for "hospitality center" event at Florida State
Fair in Tampa - February timing.
Parliament is translating Party Zone to a bar program at the ski resorts from mid-
January through mid-February.

RED

WIC Review - We've scheduled brand program & planning reviews with WIC on
December 7th. I only plan to do B&H, Merit & Virginia Slims, That's what needs flushed
out -- I'm comfortable that he's up to speed for now enough with Parliament & the
multibrand visibility activities. I want to use the precious time on the national brand
visions.

Bates & Parliament - Shelly & Jose & I are working diligently to get things wrapped
up with Bates, I'ma bit nervous on their commitment to deliver the Spain shoot A&K by
the time we "part ways" on December 31st. Prompt timing was never their strong suit and
the "lame duck” syndrome is setting in, We just plan to "stay all over them" & get it done!

May Retail - Michele/Bileen have asked purchasing to bid multiple items around the
"summer - beach" theme. Recall, we decided to forgo price or product and do the multi-
brand event as incentives (FSF's input that this was best). Carton item will be a
“waterproof radio", disposable camera or watch; pack is a lighter; bounce back is beach
‘gear - chairs, towels, etc. Bids will be back after the holiday at which time we'll make a
more specific decision.

Misty - I've seen a draft of the plan --- asked a few questions; but they should have it in
shape to share with you just before or after the holiday. One issue to work will be the PPP
calendar; analysis shows the retail activity was a big contributor - so we need to find a way
(0 get ivkeep it on the calendar,

LITTESSHOS
