migRe
Pi replaced by 7
vill be replaced by former

ct aia
Sghevink investors

‘By OLIVERA PERKINS

‘The tornado that swept through down-
town Cleveland in 1958 tok out homes,
businesses, offices — but’ miraculously,
spared the small grocery on E. 17th St. and

familton Ave.,run by the Grossman family.

‘Tewas one of the calamities that have by-
passed three generations of Grossmans,
Who have occupied the same comer since
1917,

“That tornado ripped up the whole nelgh-
borhood,” said Irvin Grossman, 68, who ran.
the grocery with his father, William, the

store's founder. “It was so strong that it
hhurled a gigantic beam all the way over
here from the post office that was on 18th"
and St. Clair.”

"The Grossmans' grocery, believed to be
the oldest in downtown Cleveland, survived
the Gteat Depression and the urban blight
of the 1960s and "70s, in which “seedy” was
the adjective most often used to describe
‘the neighborhood.

‘7 guess it was our destiny to be here,”
said Irvin, who is retired but still occasion
ally helps outhis son, Gregg. Gregg, 45,rep-
resents the store's third generation.

DAVID ANDERSEN LAD DIALER SOTOCHAPHER

Gregg Grossman, right, owner of Grossman's In & Out Foods, is behind the counter with his father, Irvin, who retired from the

business but sometimes helps out. The family store, which has been in the same location since 1917, s belleved to be the oldest
continuously operated grocery in downtown Clevelarid.

Store's roots run deep

Family-owned grocery in downtown Cleveland has
withstood Depression, world wars and a tornado

When William Grossman bought, the
store, It was one of several small markets
serving a then-residential neighborhood of
Slovenian and Polish immigrants. Back
then, bread and coal oi, used for gas lamps,
‘were among the best-selling tems.

‘But some ‘things have changed. The
houses that onced lined many area streets
have been replaced by parking lots, office
buildings and municipal offices, The Gross-
mans now specialize in the lunchtime trade,
making delt sandwiches for office and mu

ea nonert SEE GROCERYIG-B

mee -

2063454475
