Plasma and urine changes after smoking different brands
of cigarettes

Concentrations of ncn, cotinine. al carbushemestobin (COND) were meusared inthe
plasm of subjects who sme 1 cigarcte of eh of 10 diferent brads and then smoked 1
‘mand for 2 wh. There were higher COHI levels in smokers of law CO-sild cigarettes, wher
the rive nicotine afer 1 cigarette ofeach of the difevem brands was related t ts ncoine
‘conte. Asses of win and plasma cotinine feels in smokers smoking brands wth diferent
nicotine content showed that smokers adjusted their smoking habits to maintain a constant level

attic, This slfsration of wewtne the snes mas pore health hacund even eth

relaivels low nicotine cigars.

P. Hill, Ph.0., and H. Marquardt, MLD. Vathull. NY.

America Health Foundation

Nicotine plays a major role in smoking be-
havior." "* * with smokers adjusting smoking
behavior to maintain a plasma nicotine level
characteristic of the individual smoker." De
Spite the recent production of cigarettes with
lower tar and nicotine contents" consumption
of eigaretes per smoker has increased,” with
smokers adjusting thei intensity of smoking. = *
The health benefits of ciparetes very low in
nicotine have been questioned by Russell 2°
To determine differences in smoking habits
We allowed smokers to adjust to different cig
Fettes. before measuring changes: in blood.
nicotine, cotinine, and. carbon monoxide
(COHb), Several measurements. of each pa
rameter were made, and’ butts were collected
daily. No restrictions on sioking behavior were
applied. Blood COHD, nicotine, and cotinine
levels und the changes in these parameters were
measured in 9 smokers (7 male, 2 female: aged

Rested a pain 2.197
‘Aces tr pen D9

20 10.30 ye) after smoking 10 brands of plie
cigarettes over a period of 10 wk. Self-titain
by cigarette smokers was investigated when the
same plasma parameters and urinary cotinine
and nicotine levels were found after smoking
different brands for 1 or 2 wk.

Methods

Subjects were in general good health, Cus
‘omary brand and number of cigarettes smoked
per day by each smoker were recorded. Most of
the smokers customarily used cigarettes cot
{ining | 10 1.33 mg nicotine. Smokers were
Fequested to maintain theie normal. smoking
habits throughout the study. In all eases smok
ers were unaware of the differences betweet
brands of cigarettes

Plasma nicotine and cotinine were measured
by radioimmunoassay (RIA) as described by
Langone et al."? This method uses specific ab-
bit antisera produced by injection of trans
carboxycotinine and trans-3-suecinylmethyl
‘cotinine conjugated t0 albumin. Levels asayed
by this method are comparable to those obtained
by gas-liquid chromatography.” Urinary cot
ine was determined a abve after dilution of

S053 07$00 701 © 198 The C: V. Mey

