Pre pou Aga Se 4
SE Hh eo

(wi Ga
Ole oc

Lucigenin luminescence as a measure of intracellular superoxide
dismutase activity in Escherichia coli

Frupovicy*

‘STEFAN. LiocneY AND IR
evn of Bassemay, Oaks Uanemty Meee Cen, Duma. NEST

Coen Irn Foch, Jen 61997

ABSTRACT —Lacigenin and paraquat are similar a that
‘heh exe be ten late Escher cou and can then edit
{Bi production by cyl of watraentreducon, othe corre
‘rooting monoestion real olowed by avtoridation. Toes,
‘Sth compounds caused induction of enzymes that are egw:
{ed bythe s08RS regulon Toe lecigenta enon radical bas
the added property of reacting with i. a a radealendical

“rain provide ~98% protection ofall OF-sensiive targets i
Evel Tals degre of provection us vo clone tothe Ut of
‘oom chat halving the paretal level of [SOD). or increasing
W'Stold, bad ooly margioal effects on the latensity of
Twcigenio-ependent luminescence.

‘A preous sty (1) has establsbed that hcigenin (Lae
‘eli reauoed unvalenty and tat the feta leenia
‘ton radical Lic") autoriizes ang thus generates OF. Luc
Sth react with OF in a radia-radical addition reaction 10
‘rei an unstable donetane, whove decompontbon yeas tbe
‘reed sate acnidone, wich emuts ght i reruraing 10 (De
[round sate (2-4), Because ean thus at as both a soure of
Soda detesor of Of Lue" luminescence isnot a reliable
tressure of [08]. The ihibiion of ths luminescence can
Foweve be wed asa meante of superotice dismutase (SOD)

“Scott and Eaton neverbeless recently reported (S) that 8
sodm sod stain of Exchenchia co. heed much ‘ore
oer minescence than cia the SOD-repete parental
fitan, and they assered that tey were measuring itracel-
Inlar {Of} Thin was of special meres 1o us because we Bad

previously attempted to measuTe [05] in col bases on the
Balance derween the vapid inactivation of aconitae by OF
i

by Fe) plu cela reduces (6). We
isp ted to calculate [0%] based op ts measured rate

00 a0 Know rates of removal by SOD and by
futathione (7). We therefore undertook an exploration of
Leet" Tuminescence eicted by E.coli The results of these
‘udies that lead fo ab appreciation of the degree of Pro-
tenon by SOD, afforded to cellular targets of 3, are
Feponed bere

MATERIALS AND METHODS:

Lucv™ (bN-methyiscridinium aise) was from Aldrich
(CuZnSOD was from Dagooroe Data (Mountain View. CA)

ie paows cra of a ce ere ire a my a
Frrees Tos wise uxt aoe bbe) arse avs
[ima sig 1 USC fi? wey mune tu ace

appr © 197 Tre Maron Acsobcy oF Scares oF re USA
sai Rama

201

PUBLICATIONS

fatale was from Boehnnger Mannheim: FO" «meth!
‘ologen), NADPH. plucone-a-phosphate succinate anthine
Und Srochrome ¢ were from Sigma. malate was fom ICS
‘ean act and bactourypione were fore Dio: and glove
{Tas trom Mallinceodt (Chesterfield. MO), Xanthine oxidase

Center)
6) SOD

suran, TIS2, sodA sodB, JMO, sodA: JUSI, SofB. and
'ABIIS? + pliSI=4, FeSO overproguer. These strains were
‘btained from J Amy (11, Baciena were grown overuBht
1 Lume-Berani (LB) mecium,viichw the tase of ABLIST
pHSI=« contained 12-5 uM teuacycine. Aeration was
imabtaied by shaking st 200 rpm at37°C Inthe moring cells
‘were inoculated sto freab meaium as speried i te Nite
Tegeods and were then grown un alates without asibnooe. Lo
terme ces, paraget or MATMPYP was added. and subse
(Quenly sample were taken luegenin was adGed. and um
Sesceace wat measured. ober eases. cel were collected ty
eeunfupatin, washed with 50 mM porasiom phosphate (pH
13 )sand then suspended to equal Aue a the same buffer Pus
‘atbon source ort LB medium. Subsequent. hcigenin was
Sided and luminescence measured. When i was Gerable 10
fuppress MaSOD biosmuhess the cells were grown for several
hous in anaerobic GAS-Park containers (BBL. Balmore) In
{Ileus Luc" was the la component added before mea
{urement of Liminecence in + Toraet Desigas Model 20E
Faminometer as cescbed (1), The reaction volume wat 0$ ml
And the rumen! was operated with «Sse delay and sec
Istegraion ume.

‘When enzyme activity asars were indicated cells were
‘washes with $0 0M potassium phosphate (pH 7.) and then
Iysee with x French Press. Liates were clarified by centl-
Upaton, andthe resultant exrace were assayed for protein
(15), fumarate (13). and plucose-6 phospuate denydroge
fuse (14), NADPHLuc"™ onidoreguciase was asayed as
previously described for NADPH:PQ™™ oxidoreductase
hs

RESULTS

Comparison of adh sa and SOD-RepleteStraas. Over.
ign curures LB megium were tea 1'40 with fresh LB
ad were grown for 90 sun, Arts me, the sadA sod strain
(GUD) bad reached Aug = 028, whereas the fase growing
SOD-repete stain (ABLIST) had achieved duo = 1.0. The
(els were coleced ty centrigaton, washed once with $0
SEM potassum poorpbate (pH 73) and ben ted vo Aum =
Osun ne species mec cosiuang 01 aM Loc" Fig.
emoostrates that JI132 ected more Lac” luminescence

= ee

055720
