a Ie F Penny

Asbestos-Related Mesothelioma:

Epidemiological Evidence for Asbestos as a Promoter

KEVIN BROWNE,
Group Medical Adviser
Cape Industries Ltd.
114 Park Street
London

 BS., MSc.

ABSTRACT. A series of 144 cases of mesothelioma among asbestos workers indicated im-
portant divergences from the epidemiological pattern shown to exist for asbestos-related
lung cancer. Consideration of exposure duration and intensity and the latent period be-
tween first exposure and death suggests that asbestos does not act as a complete car-
<inogen, but as a promoter. A threshold seems probable for both duration and intensity of
‘exposure in the induction of mesothelioma. This threshold may, in par, be related to the
‘passage of fibers from the lungs to the pleura or peritoneum, and would, in any case, be
‘masked in lung cancer by the retention of asbestos in the lungs. Reported cases of
‘mesothelioma in immediate family members indicate the existence of an additional factor
in mesothelioma induction, acting earlier in life than the first asbestos exposure.

AN ANALYSIS of mesothelioma incidence among
‘employees engaged in manufacturing asbestos pro-
ducts suggested certain differences in the epidemiology
‘of mesothelioma compared with that of lung cancer.
‘The peaked distribution of age incidence seen with
most cancers results from the exponentially increasing,
probability of developing the tumor over time (e.g.,.p
& tt for lung cancer in smokers, where ¢ = time from
the onset of smoking)’ until susceptibles are increasing
ly removed from the population and competing causes
of death become more pronounced. McDonald? has
used data from Selikoff to illustrate this occurrence for
lung cancer in asbestos workers.

Peto,* however, has noted that while epithelial cell
‘malignancies, which account for 90% of all malignan-
cies, behave according to modes allowing predictions
of power-law relationships between incidence and

September/October 1983 [Vol 38, (No.5)

time, tumors arising from nonepithelial cells, including
mesotheliomas, may not. It has been suggested recent
ly that asbestos-related malignancies conform better to
the initiation-promotion model, and that asbestos is an
carcinogen having promoting activities

reversible, while promotion may
be reversible, so that “doses of a promoter which are
too low or too widely spaced render it less effective
even though the total dose would be adequate for
strong promotion.” The present cases were, therefore, Q
examined, together with other reported series, for such
evidence.

‘METHODS

S6290T

One hundred two cases of mesothelioma occurred “E
among employees ata factory in Barking, England. The

261
