sso

esate }02

p53: At the Crossroads of Molecular
Carcinogenesis and Risk Assessment

Curtis C. Harris

Moasions in the tumor supper gene
£53 sve common in human cance an
fact can be fund in sbou aff cai,
‘The locaton and characteris of these
153 morations ean reveal ses abot the
Cel and maleclar pathogenesis f cae
ce "
Moctions in p83 are quite diferent
from tov n most ther por soppeson
‘The comor wppeessor genet dletive in
retinoblastoma" (RD) sod adenomatous
epoch (APC) ate commonly act
fated by nonsense motatons that cause
truncation orinably of he protein. But
in p53 more than 90 potent sf the mit
tions se misense mations that change
the encgy ofan amino acd. Changing
dining 4 nhs way cam ar dhe on
formation and incre the sabi ofthe
183 protein thee mutations alo can fot
fect alter the quence specie DNA,
Selig and emcrton ay ayo
53 (2) Indeed the fequney of P53 mut
Ga rhea eoec tere tipi
‘hue this misence clu of muation can
‘hue both als of tor suppor fine-
Sion and 3 in of oncogene ancion by
Slerton of the repetate of genes con
ted 93 0) -
specu of mutations in 953
duced in human cancer ean help enti
fartaar carcinogens and define the bi
rcical mechonme response fe the
fenctic lesion in DNA that cause human
ance. The frequency and rye of p33 mur
tations can aio act 383 motel dsin
ser of eatlnogen expose and hereby
provide Information sbout the moleclar
Epidemiology of human cancer Tak (4)

‘The p53 gene is well suited for ths form of
molecular archaeology. The majority of
mutations in PSS ae in the hydrophobic

midregion of the protein (Fig. 1). The
function of the p53 protein as a transcrip
tion factor is exquisitely sensitive to con
formational changes in this region that te
sult fom amino aeid substitutions, and p53
Binding to other cellular and oncoviralpro-
teins can easly be diupeed by mutations
fn these regions

How can p53. mutation spectra lead to
‘deni of the eareinogens. thac
caused a panicular tumor! Different cat

Tha aor win Lobo a Haran Cucnoger-
i Dvton ot Caen Eiegy. Nato Coe Ie
‘in Boreas, S098

cinogens seem to cause ifferent character
lst mutations. Exposure to one comaion
earcinogen, ultraviolet light, is cortelated
‘with tension matations at dipyrimidine
sites (3); dietary aflatoxin B, exposure is
cortelated with GC to TA transversion
that Head toa Serine substitution a residue
249 of p53 in hepatocellular carcinoma (6)
and exposure to cigaette sine is come
lated with GC to TA teanscersions in
ling and head and neck eaeinomas (1,2)
Flow these mutations aise can be fur
ther tested in the laboratory: For example,
the predominane base changes in p53 in
Tung’ cancers (G:C to TA tansversions)
and skin carcinomas (CG to T:A transi
tions) suggest that the causal lesion likely
‘curred on the nontransribed stand,
Finding that i consistent with the preeren
tial repaie after damage of the transcribed
steand of active genes (8). Benzo(a)pyrene,
a cateinogen in tobacco smoke, forms DNA.
duct that ate more slouly repaired when
present on the nontranscribed stand than
fn the transcribed strand of the hypoxan
thine (guanine) phosphoribosy! wansferase
gene, and ultraviolet light-induced coss
Tinked dipyrimidines ip the nontanscribed
DNA strand ofthe 53 gene sho are more
slowly repaired than in the transcribed

strand (9)- Because DNA repair raves can
‘be sequence-depenilene (10), the p53 muta
tion spectrum could be influenced by boxh
the type and location of the promutagenic
lesion. Transeription-repain coupling. fac
to45, the products of the mfd and ERCC:3
genes, have recently, been aentifcd anal
provide a mechanistic underpinning. for
strandispecifie repair (U1). Anuthes x:
ample comes from, aieas of China and
Mozambigue with a high aneidence of liver
cancer. The high frequency of GE wo TA
transvessions in human hepacocellolar eat
sinomas in this region could be due to the
high mutability ofthe thind hase of codon
249 by aflatoxin B, oF to a selective growth,
advantage of hepatocyte clones carrying |
this specific p53 mutant in liver chronically, |
infected with hepacitis B virus. Indeed, the
third base of codon 249 in a human tier
«ell line exposed 60 aflatoxin B, is preferen-
tially mutated (12). Other $3 cuons
show a lower frequency of GC to TA,
GE WAT, and GE to CG mutations, |
which suggests that both preferential an
bility and clonal selection are involved in
‘human hepatocellular carcinogenesis
‘The p53 muational spectra also can ine |
dicate that a panicular cancer didnot re- |
sult from an environmental carcinegen but |
instead was caused by endogenous muta: |
agenesis, The high frequency of Co Tran- |
sitions at CpG dinucleotides in colon carei> |
i

nommas (J) is consistent with mutagenesis
ly endogenous deamination mechanisns
A transinon of C co-T would be generated
by spontancous deamination of Somethy:
estore (13) or by enzymatic deamination

x
20 ix)
S|

ed
” I
a

D

" Gal
mosy 200 200 a

‘na 2, £16/and £6 svaoT
nears ei ee

lg, 1. Mutaons in the p89 proeln. Funcicns(vansactvaton, range: obgemertaien, geen)
ang evolutionary conserved (10) dorains of 753. Oher cet (Mama) ond encowral protons

(Sv20 Tanigen, E1b om adenovius, and E6 liom human papiiora wus) bin

(19ph aciates base substation messins(
Fry 2as (n= 88) 2480

SCIENCE + VOL. 262 + 14 DECEMBER 1999

p88 The bar

e1}endmuavorshol spolsatcadon (ne |
a 29 (n= $5,273 80) and a(n ey |
