Neurochemistry

neuroreport

‘Tue effect of the cholinesterase inhibitor neostigmine
‘on hippocampal noradcenaline (NA) release was studied
Using ix vion microdialysis. Local application of azo
fgmine significantly increased the release of NA. The
fect was potentiated by coperfusion of the nicotinic
gatagoni Imecamplamine byt wan completely Blocked

by the muscarinic antagonist atropine. The neost
sed by the M2-

‘mine-evoked INA release Wwas not al
Sect mca ay ine but war com
iy 5 the antago-
bist pirenzepine, While muscarinic antagonists had no
effect on the resting release of NA, mecamylamine
increased it. Our data indicate that acetylcholine can
sGmulat the hippocampal NA release via MI muscari
Inie receptors and that 2 population of nicotinic
tors mediate inhibitory’ tone on hippocampal NA
release, The fact that neostigmine is able to enhance
both cholinergic and noradrenergic neurotransmission
ray help to understand the beneficial effect of cholines-
terase inhibitors in Alzheimer's disease. NewroReport
10:81-86 © 1999 Lippincote Williams & Wilkins.

Keywords Accyistlin, Hippocampus, Micon
ftcarinie receptors; Neostigmine; Nicotinic receptors:
Noradressinevelese a

[NeuroReport 10, 81-86 (1999)

Effect of neostigmine on
the hippocampal
noradrenaline release:
role of cholinergic
receptors

Janos P. Kiss,’° E. Sylvester Vizi?
and Ben H.C. Westerink’

‘Department of Medicinal Chemistry, University
Center for Pharmacy, University of Groningen,
Groningen, The Netherlands; “Department of
Pharmacology, Institute of Experimental Medicine,
Hungarian Academy of Sciences, H-1450
Budapest, PO Box 67, Hungary

(A2Corresponding Author and Addeess

Introduction

‘Ageing and Alzheimer’s disease (AD) are associated.
‘with the-rapid decline of cognitive functions. It is
generally accepted that the impairment of choliner-
gic neurotransmission plays 2 crucial role in this
process [1]. Evidence from several studies indicates
that noradrenergic dysfunction is also an imporcant
factor in memory decline [2,3]- These observations
suggest that the cholinergic-noradrenergic inter-
action may have special importance in cognitive
funetions.

Cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEIs) are the current
‘drugs of choice in the treatment of AD [4]. A direct
correlation was found between the level of acetyl-
cholinesterase inhibition, increase of extracellular
concentration of ACh in cortex and hippocampus
‘and cognitive improvement [4]. It has been observed
that ChEls depending on the compound and route
of administration may have various effects on the
extracellular concentration of NA in the cortex [5],
but no studies have investigated how the increased
level of ACh affects the fonction of noradrenergic
neurotransmission in the hippocampus, although
this brain region has a crucial role in memory
functions and learning. Thus it seemed interesting to
study the effect of the CEI neostigmine on the
extracellular level of NA in the hippocampus.

(0959-4065 5 Lippincott Willams & Wikio

‘The axon terminals in the hippocampus are
equipped with different stimulatory and inhibitory
receptors being able to affect the release of transmit-
ters. It has been shown that nicotinic acetylcholine
receptors (aACHRs) play an important role in the
regulation of noradrenergic neurotransmission in the
central and peripheral nervous system [6,7}. In our
previous studies [8-10] we investigated the effect of
nicotinic. receptor agonists on the noradrenaline
(NA) release from rat hippocampal slices and we
found chat these compounds increase the NA release
through activation of nAChRs. The localization of
these receptors was also clarified since nicotinic
agonists increased the release of NA from rat
hippocampal synaptosomes, indicating that the
AACHRs responsible for this stimulatory effect are
localized on the noradrenergic varicosities (11]. In
contrast, at che beginning of our experiments there
‘were no neurochemical data on the presence of MI
receptors on noradrenergic varicosities and inhil

tory M2 receptors were not shown on hippocampal
noradrenergic terminals [12]. Since the majority
(© 90%) of cholinergic varicosities make no synaptic
contact in the hippocampus [13] and there is no
morphological evidence for synaptic contacts be-
tween cholinergic and noradrenergic axons in this
brain region, cholinergic receptors on noradrenergic
varicosities may play a role only in non-synaptic

Vol 10No 1 18Januay 1609 BT

S969SPbL0z
