Bibarer tte eden Sei

4, 8, at. ms

Expression of the Thyroid Sodium/lodide Symporter in

Xenopus laevis Oocytes*

Franck Vilijn and Nancy Carrasco?

in

(Received for publication, Jnuery 27,1989) —

From the Department of Molecular Pharmacology, Alber Binstein College of Medicine, Bons, New York 10461

Poly(A‘) RNA isolated from FRTL-5 cells (a contin-
uous line of cultured and fully functional rat thyroid
cells (Ambesi-Impiombato, F. S., Parks, L. A. M., and
Coons, H. G. (1980) Proe. Natl. Acad. Sei, U.S. A. 77,
8455-3459)) was injected into Xenopus laevis oocytes,
and the expression of the Nav” symporter in the
plasma membrane was assayed by measuring the Na*-
dependent C10;-sensitive uptake of ™I. Expression of
the Na*/I- symporter was detected as a 7-fold average
increase in transport over background, 5~6 days after
injection, Poly(A*) RNA was subsequently fractionated
by sucrose gradient centrifugation, and fractions were
assayed for their ability to induce I transport activity.
‘The poly(A") RNA encoding the Na*/I" symporter was
found in a fraction containing messages of 2.8-4.0
kilobases in length.

‘The Na*/I symporter of the thyroid gland, which is re-
sponsible for the active Na’-dependent accumulation of I
‘2 membrane protein located in the basolateral end of the
epithelial cells of the thyroid follicles. - transport into these
cells is the frst step in the synthesis ofthe iodine-containing
thyroid hormones TS and T4. After I” is taken up, it is
oxidized and incorporated into tyrosyl residues on the thyro-
lobulin molecule; subsequently, fodinated thyroglobulin is
stored extracellularly in the follicular eolloid. Thyroid hor-
mones 73 and T4 result from lysosomal cleavage of endocy-
tosed iodinated thyroglobulin in the follicular eels (2). The
feneral properties of the I-concentrating system of the thy-
roid were elucidated from early experiments performed in
intact animals (3, 4), thyroid slices (6), and primary cell
cculsures (6, 7). The Na*/I” symporter has recently been
further characterized in FRTL-5 cells (1, 8-12) and hog
‘thyroid membrane vesicles (13). In summary, I” uptake in
‘thyroid tissue and thyroid-derived cells has been found tobe:
() an active transport process that occurs against an electro:
chemical gradient; (b) driven by an inwardly directed Na*
aradient generated by the ouabain-sensitive Na'/K* ATPase;
(©) sensitive to anions which act as competitive inhibitors,
such as SCN” and ClO; and (d) induced by TSH? from the
anterior pituitary by activation of the adenylate cycla
cAMP-dependent protein kinase system (14). Despite the
\Na'/I- symporter's fundamental importance in. mammalian
Physiology and its significance in light of iodine's relative

* The costs of publication ofthis article were defrayed in part by
the payment of page charges. This article must therefore be hereby
marked “advertiserent’ in accordance with 18 USC. Section 1734
solely to indicate this fact.

To whom correspondence should be addressed, Tel: 212-430.
5b,

The abbreviations used are: TSH, thyroid-stimulating hormone;
Hipes,4-(2-hydroxyethy))-1-piperasineethaneslfonie acid.

carcity in the environment, litle is currently known about
its structure, biochemistry, and molecular properties. Hence,
‘we have initiated studies on the properties of the transporter
and its cognate mRNA by expressing it in Xenopus laevis
cocytes and identifying the size of the mRNA that encodes
‘the carrier protein. In the absence of probes auch as antibodies
‘or oligonucleotides based on protein sequence data, this func-
tional approach provides a feasible route for the cloning and
structural analysis of the Na*/I" symporter. X. laevis oocytes
faithfully translate heterologous mRNA and carry out post
translational modifications, including processing of precursor
‘molecules (15), phosphorylation (16, 17), and glycosylation
(18-20). Appropriate targeting (21) also takes place in this
expression systema,

EXPERIMENTAL, PROCEDURES

Moterils—The folowing materials wore obtsined from the indi-
‘ated sources: guanidinium thioeyanate, Fluka; CoC) Interoational
Biotechnologies, Inc; oligo(dt)-cllulose type Tl, Collaborative Re-
search; sucrose, Betheeda Research Laboratories Leibovitz medium,
Peniiln, and etreptomyein, GIBCO, Na", Amersham Corp.

Isolation of PoS(A°) RNA—Total RNA va repared by # anodi-
tation of the method of Chirwin et al. (8) FRTL-S cals were
harvested with a rubber blade snd washed with phosphate buffered
saline, The cll suspension was eantefuged at 500 % g for 3 in,
resuspended in 10 volumes of extesetion buffer ( M guanidininn
thiocyanate 1 a 2-mereaptoetharel, 0. a sodium acetate (pH 6.0),
0.01 M EDTA), homogenized with a Brinkmann Polytron homoge
nizer, and stirred for 16 min in the presence of 1 g/ml CsCl. The
homogenate was lsyered on top of « saturated CyCl solstion and
‘centrifuged at 140,000 @for 16h at 18°C. After centrfipation the
RNA band wes apirated, extracted with chloroformbutanel,4lcend
precipitated with ethenol, Poly(A") RNA was isolated by affinity
chromatography on an olig(@T)-ellalose type If column, according
to Aviv and Leder (19)

‘Size Fractionation of Poly(A‘) RNA—Poly(A*) RNA was sie:
‘rectionated in a sucrose gradient, Poly(A*) RNA (150 ug) was heated
‘tw 5 C, immediately cooled, and then sedimented through « 525%
(w/w) sucrose gradient containing 10 ran Hepes (pIt 75), 2 mm
EDTA, and 0.1% lithium dodecylsulfate in an SW 41 rotor a 85,000
xg for 17h at °C. Fractions (450 al) were collected, precipitated
with ethanol, and dissolved in wate.

“Microinjection of Pob(A*) RNA into X. lous Oocyter—X. laevie
‘oeytes were microinjected according to the general methods of Col-
tan (20), Female X: laevis frogu (Nasco, Fort Atkinson, WI) were
anesthetized for 25 min in 18 mg/ml 3-amincbenaoie eid eth] ester.
Port of the ovary was dissected, excised, and placed in a Co"-free
[ND 96 solution (06 rat NaC, 2 ma# KCI, 1 mat MgCl, 5 mat Hepes
(pif 75), 2.5 mat pyruvate, 100 units/ml poniilin, 0.2 mg/l strep.
tomycin), The tissue was digested with 2 mg/ml collagenase in the
same Ca**fre solution for 2h. Oocytes were then tranaferred to 18
‘mM Ce"*-containing ND 96 solution and dseected manually 1 re
‘ove the follicular layer. Dissected oocytes wee incubated overnight
1 19°C in Hepes-buffered Laibovitz meds containing peniilin
‘and streptomycin, Stage V-VI oocytes wee elected for mieroinjee-
tion, Fifty al of water containing 0 or 80 ng of poly(A") RNA as
indicated im ehe legends was microinjected as described (2). Microine
‘ected oocytes were maintained at 18°C in Lelbviee medium, which
‘vas changed daly

11901
