Tobacco Specific NNicrosamines: Occurrence,
Carcinogenicity, and Metabolism

STEPHEN s. HECICT, CIULMONG B. CHEN, C. DAVID MeCOY,
fd DIETRICH HOFFMANN

pls Dan natn for Dene Prevention, American He Foundation,
Vall, NY 1055

t is now videly accepted that cigarette suoking causes lung
cancer (1,2). Tt 9 hese widely Known that emoking ie also cor
felated with an increased incidence of cancer of the oral cavity,
‘ceophagus, pancreas and bladder (Z,3,4,5,€). Tobacco chewing can
Siso cause oral cavity and esophageal cancer (3,4,7). In fact,
Gral cavity cancer 4s a major cancer among pon in India, where the
tof chewing the betel quid containing tobacco ta widespread
+ elgarette smoke ia known to contain tumor initiators such a
the polynuclear aromatic Rydrocarbons, and tumor promoters and
cocafetnogens, such aa catechol (S)- These agents can explain
any of the observed effects of cigarette mote condensates in
“xperinental aninals and almost certainly are involved in sone of
the human cancers associated with emoking. However, nitrosamine®
say also be causative factors In the tebscco related cancers,
Sepeciaily in those organs which are renote from direct contact
Sith tobacco or tobacco anoke. hus it is kno that altrosanines
Son couse esophageal, pancreas and bladder cancer 4n experimental
Shinais, as well ae affecting the Lung and oral cavity (10-11-12).
‘since tobacco and tobacco smoke have spreific carcinogenic
efcocts in mon, it i tempting to speculate that there may Be
Unigue carcinogenic agents tn tobacco and tobacco snckes The
topscco specific nitrovanines are ouch a group. These nitros~
ltnince are derived from the tobacco alkaloids. (see Figare 1). The
oct prevelent alkaloid! Iz nicotine, which occurs in general in
Concentrations of 1-24 in comercial tobscco products Both nico-
tine and nornicetine could give rise to the prototype of tobacco
specific nitrosanines, f'onitrosonornicetine (HM). Nicotine
Could also be nitcosated to fora. 4 (Nenathyl-W-niteosanino) “1
{G-pyriayi)~L-betanone. (WK) oF 4-(Wencthyl-w-nitrosamino)~
(-pyeiey}butanal (ENA). In addition, wenitrosopyerolidive (wry)
Gould aio be derived from nlcotine and norateotine. witrosation
‘Sf ansbasine vould give nitrosoanabasine (uk8). The structures
‘Sf these nitrosenines, which will be considered in this review,
Gro show in Figure 2, Of course, inepection o€ Figure 1 reveals
miter Interesting possibilteies for nitrosation of the tobycco

