aes er ne
of Smoking on Risk- Taking ina”
tact 7 ire al ee,

ie:
Seed Passing Task

‘Stuokary sou pried 0 be trvolued ie Geille ceculens Por: oqucaly than wonstookore
ou posse planus fr thr rs snakes way ws ers or ap Be
Saike, Aiculathg Wi8 dar cesenclon Te Cer ar aie eee
_smokers-deprived, and smokers were required to perform a simulated car passing task-a task ©
which, in actual driving situations, may be fraught with risk. However, no significant
E differences were detected as a function of the Smoking Condition. Therefore, it was con- ~
‘cluded that nonsmokers, smokers-deprived, and smokers did not differ either in their willing-“@3
mess to take risks or in the accuracy with which they were able to evaluate risk. Differences 3
" were detected, though, as a function of trials, viz, with practice, the subjects became more
Oe ciate in vung rik snes sac cil
a Some tiene se Bees

lio wore caarsiced arcs apes both
traffic accidents and traffic violations, these
drivers were categorized into three grouy
(Q) no accident yiolation, (2) median’
accident-violation; or (3) high accident
violation. Smokers, in comparison with "
nonsmokers were found, to. be over-,,
represented in the high accident-violation

sroups and under-represented in the no"
“many traffic accidents. Some data also Sceidens-volation group, More recently,

suggest a relationship between smoking and. cGuire (1972) has also reported smoki
feGu as also reported smoking
, traffic accidents. In one study (lanni and habits to be related wo wrath accident fre: Pe
Bock. 0, lng bl of ery bd wn ge 96m
involved in, traffic accidents (n=161) were 2s
i. USAF enlisted personnel. (BRUSH
3% compared t0 a similar group of noninvolved,, Apparently, then, smokers are canis

drivers (n=196). Significantly more of the in- Desai (osteo axe ciied’ BE ce
volved drivers ere current cigarette smoke Sea Seer Genito ate cifad foe, welt

BSc vs, 54%) SH ESSSEH May ALS 5 -Pad
3B In another study (Adams pt Williams’
‘3. 1966), the driving Fecords of 1,025 young

Siates resulted in over 45,000 fatalities (Na-
£ ¥F tonal Safety Council, 1975). Although this Bg
“Sure represents, significant istietoa Fos

fin injury and property damage’as well. It is,
J Well known’ that alcohol is implicated in

‘But why? There are several possible explana:

tthe differential rates may simply

reflect differences in driving exposure, since,

_, im the studies reviewed, no attempt was made.

to control for driving exposure. And to com
are accident rates meaningfully, i is nec

ate Fe catia

