Asks

1 Mol. Bit (1986) 286. 720-795

JMB

| @

Analyses of the First Chemical Step in Fip
Site-specific Recombination: Synapsis May
Not be a Pre-requisite for Strand Cleavage

Yuri Voziyanov, Jehee Lee, Ilson Whang, Joonsoo Lee and

kkuni Jayaram*

Deparenent of Micrabilogy
Unversity of Texas at
Austin, Austin, TX 78712
usa

“Connyonting ator

‘he sitespecfic recombination eatin mediated by the Fp recombinase
‘occurs within a protein-DNA ‘complex containing four monomers of Fp
Sri two OWA slostates. The reac requires thatthe sandezcangs,
reson aso aed he space or oelap ego ofthe recontinagrarengs
pene homologsus h sgl Hh weoar bound oie meee
Seatene suite to oat the atalepheaphodiser sane
the phosphoryl transfer reaction ha indutes and breakage Clesage
shen "he we posing ate eee
phosphodiester ar noncompensniary Ts fequreren is Wise tae
baseparing can be overcome under Condos ha promote tration of
a tigtip Ser nese te spare exurce Sylar bea
fipaccupied DNA subtats doc ad open woes eerste ee
trgecrin send envnge. The vencon ety inane ens ener
viper is enblaned ass the spacer wahin a agi combiion
target ste. nthe acne of» sompettie prey the even eee
{Ticky reversed by rescaling the hick, TMereoreaecumntion of seed
Sreakager is seoced: Coordinated pes asvages ein x sehie
Compt cat ea to sand ang aces partners tes nag ees
sry trots cen eel
sccepet viet fat hoelogy Uetweenrcobine pistes ea
Ti titer stand cleavage his occurred.

£1996 Academic Press Limited
hal sites: phosphate orientation;

-Keyvords:site-speciic recombin
Stand clessager synapais

Introduction

protein and DNA, and exposes a S-hydrowyl group
at the break point. In the svand-joining reaction, the

Site-specific recombinases that belong 19 the
Integrae he Integra’ protein of phage In)
tal cargos eta 1986, Abert Ne ey
Ase identical chemical mechanisms ta accomplish
Sand breakage and stand ining during recom:
ation between two partner OA molecules (rag
1958, Landy, 196%, SUrket a, 1992: Sadowski, 19935
The strand cleavage step invokes the orientation of
the sciatle phosphodiester bond within DNA
"Cecasonally Fefereed to ae the vation sip Yor
fucleephilie attack by the active site torosing
fesidue of the recombioase. The cleavage reaction
Produces a 3-O-phosphotyrost! linkage between

‘Abbreviations use: ft tegrane

Phosphotyrsyl bond fs otened for nucleophile
Ick by the s:hydrouy group. Hf ths rection
‘cours within dhe same ceed Eubstate, parca
Sonfiguration i restored, if the reaction occurs
between substrate porines.a Hallisay junction Is
formed. The Halliday intermediate can be resolved
into reciprocal recombinants. by repewting, the
cleavage and joining evens atthe other end the
Strand-echange region (also called the overlap
region or space

recombination reaction occurs within. 3
protein-DNA complex in which the two DNA
Eubstrates and four recombinase monomers have
ome logether in'a productive synapic Confgur-
So. Is synapals a prerequisite lor iiggering the
Chemistryof recombination? In a teleological sense,
this would be'a desirable attribute so that {ute

40033300
