SOURCE, NATURE AND SYMPTOMOLOGY OF INDOOR AIR
POLLUTANTS

Robern
‘ACVA Alatic oe, 078 Democracy Lan, Pai, VA 2203, USA

riernopucrtow

AGIA Atlantic Ine. spectalizes in the study of {ndoor afr pollueton
Since we established ACTA in 1981, we have ploneered a, multt-disctplined
approach to the investigation of internal pollution. Investigacots, include
cheaists, atcroblologists, and air conditioning engineers ~~ chee disciplines
lumused co vorking as a team. Our client List includes nuserous government
agencies; multi-national compantes in insurance, finance, tadustey banking,
and property asnagenent; colleges, schools, and numerous hospitals, Moat af
our clients now not only ask us co examine other butldings that they own, but
also enter nto long term contracts of regular aonitering and. preventive
Saincenance. In fact, as of March 1908, ve have nov studied the indoor aie
quality of over 42 ailiton square feet of property.

Noon POLLUTANTS - THE souRcES

Vircually everything ve use tn the intartor sheds some particulates and/or
hen a buslding te new, some compounds are given off quickly and. soon

pear. Others continie “off-gessing" at a slow pace for years. Comen
office supplies and equipment have been found to release dangerous chemicals.
espectally dupltcators and copiers and ve have even found forasiéehyde being
teleased From bulk paper store

People themselves are a aajor contributor since each parson. sheds
Literally atilions of particles, primarily akin scales, pet aimice. Many of
Shese scales carry afcrobes but fortunately the vast bulk Of these microbes are
shore Lived and haraless

Clothing, furnishings, draperies, carpets, ate. contribute fibers and
other feapsents. Cleaning processes, sweeping, vacuuaing, dusting, ete
normally renove the larger ‘particles, but often inctesse the  sizborne
concentrations of the smaller particles... Cooking, brotling, gr{Lling, gem an
ott burning, smoking, coal) and vood fies alse generaced ‘vast mabers of
irborne particulates, vapors, and gases. If the windevs and doors ‘are closed
all of these can only accumilace in that toternal environaent

INoOR POLLUTANTS -- THE TYPES

There are oany types of indoor pollutancs, gases, vapors, dusts, fibers,
god viable ‘and noa-visble aictoorganteas. Sone of the more ‘common ones are
Geseribed below.

au

6TOLSssezoz
