Asbestos Exposure,
Smoking, and Neoplasia

Irving J. Seliko, MD: E, Cusler Hommond, ScD; and Jacob Churg, MD

arcinams, athough
a diaease, Ca

‘who smoke have about 92 umes the rat ef dying of
bronchogenic earcinems either work with

ft should never slat, and that those. now
fmohing should stop mmmediately.

‘2 1964, we reported on deaths occurring between
‘Jan 1, 1943, and Dec 31, 1962, among 632
BDembers of the Intemational Association of Heat
land Frost Insulators and Asbestor Workers.” All
of these men bad been occupationally exposed to
‘asbestos dust for many years. ‘Their desth rate
from lung cancer was found to be 6 times as high
‘as that reported for the general white male popu:
the United States during the same Years,

with age taken into consideration, ‘Three of the
en died of diftuse pleural mesothelioma and one
died of a neoplasm histologically suggestive of peri-
oneal mesothelioma. This was of interest since

18

due to chance, the number of such deaths bein
smal), During the latter part of the study, we ob
tained information on the amoking habits of most
of the survivors, but we could pot obtain reliable
information on the smoking habits of those who
had died at an easlier date. Therefore, we could
‘not at that time investigate death rates ip rela
tion to smoking habits and exposure to asbestos
dat hich were consicered both separately and
jointly.

‘There is abundant evidence that cigarette umok- .

ing leads to a bigh rate of death from lung canc
in the absence of occupational exposure to asbestos
dust.’* Our findings outlined above suggested (but
ddid not prove) that exposure to asbestos dust may
ead to a hugh rate of death from lung cancer in
the absence of cigarette smoking. If the latter be
4, then the combined effect of both types of ex
pouure might or might pot be equal to oF gre
than the sum of the two eBerts. On the other hard,
it was possible that exposure to asbestos dust in:
creases the risk of lung cancer among cigaretie
smoker but does not lead to hung cancer amen

‘The present study was undertaken primarily
to investigate these pousibilines. In addition, we
‘wished to obtain more information on the occu:
ence of mesothelioma and gastrointestinal cancer
among asbestos workers.

Materia)

From records of New York Local 12 and Newark.
NJ, Local 32 of the Intemational Association of
Heat and Frost Insulators and Asbestos Workes
4 list was wade of every man who was « member
f either one of these locals on Dec 31, 1942, 0:
who joined between that date and Dec’ 31, 1962.
No one was omitted regardless of his nubsequent
work history

Personnel data from union records indicated that
3f the 652 on the union rolis on Jan 1, 1943, 399
fof the men bad fist been occupationally exposed
to asbestos dust prior to 1922, and an additonal

JAMIA. Aon BEB 6 Vel 204, No 2

Sserzez
