Proc, Natl. Acad. Sc. USA
Vol 81, pp. 4683-4657, May 1994
Masieai Sienses

Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor receptor signaling involves
the formation of a three-component complex with Lyn and Syk

protein-tyrosine kinases
(crtokines/nematopictins/antigen receptor activation motif)

‘Seri J. Coney*, ANNE L. BuRkHanprt, Josern B. BoLent, Rozerr L. Geanzent, Lisa S. Tkatcx§,

Anp Davin J. Twearpy‘i

Deparment of Pelikan Parmacclogy and {Mescine and Molclar Genes and Biches

Universi ofPtsbugh School of Medicine andthe

‘Patabrgh Cancer Instue,Psborgh, PA 131; "Deparaea! of Soleus Baiogy, Brio Myers Saito Pharmaceutical Research lsat, Peet, NI
(8583; ‘Depatoca of Median Chemistry and Pharmcopay, Purdue Universi, West faye, IN 4907-133; and Deparment ot Midcne, Univerty

of PnaboghSeboo of Medisne, Psp, PA T5213

Communicated by Klaus Hofmann, February 3, 1994

ABSTRACT Granulocyte colonystimulating factor (G=
CSE) isa glycoprotein that critically regulates the viability,
proliferation, and diferentiation of granulocytic precursors
nd the function of neutrophils by signaling through is recep-
tor. Cloning of the human G-CSF receptor (G-CSFR) cDNA
has demonstrated sequence homology with other members of
the hematopoietic/eytokine receptor superfamily. G-CSF
stimulates the appearance of phosphotyrosine proteins in se¥~
tral types of human and murine myeloid cells. Since the
receptor does not possess intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity, we
hypothesized that G-CSFR interacts with and activates cyto-
solleproteinyrosine kinases (PTKS). fn vivo protein kinase
assay of human G-CSFR immunopeecipitates demonstrated at
least two tyrsine phasphoprotins,ppSS and pp70. We ob-
served that G-CSF activated p52/ps6lyn, a Seerelated PTK,
land p72:yk, a non-Sreselated PTK. Lym and Syk were recov.
red in ant-G-CSFR immanoprecipitates; Lym was detected in
the absence of ligand. In addition, upon G-CSF stimulation,
Lyn colmmunoprecipitated with Spk. Analysis ofthe G-CSFR
amino acid sequence revealed potential receptor activation
‘motif for Sve. On the basis of immunopreciptation and

forms:

plex demonstrates the coordinated involvement of two PTKS
with a member of the hematopoietic/eytokine receptor super-
family.

Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) critically reg
lulates the production and functional activity of neutrophilic
granulocytes, the bulwark of host defense, and is emerging as
the drug of choice for ameliorating chemotherapy induced
bone marrow suppression and congenital neutropenia disor-
ders (1, 2). The receptor for G-CSF belongs to the newly
described family of hematopoietin/cytokine receptors (3,
42). These receptors share the characteristics of no intrinsic,
‘enzymatic activity, a single transmembrane domain, and
‘eytokine receptor homology domain containing two sets of
paired cysteines and a WSXWS motif. The hematopoietin
Feceptors appear to transduce their signals via either &
multichain complex—e.g.,. receptors for interleukin 2 (IL-2),
‘granulocyte-macrophage (GM)-CSF, 11-3, IL-5, and IL-
6—oF a homodimeric complex—e.g., receptors for G-CSF
and growth hormone (4, ). A subset of receptor molecules
for hematopoietins (G-CSF, IL-6, and leukemia inhibitory
actor/oncastatin M) demonstrates homology in their extra-

‘The publication oss of his atte were defayel in pact by pare charge
payment This aricle must therfore be bereby marked advertisement
In accordance with 18 U.S.C. $1734 solely 10 indicate this ct

4683

cellular region (4) Lite is known about the mechanisms of
signal transduction for the G-CSF receptor (G-CSFR) and
this subset of receptors. While G-CSF has been demonstrated
to stimulate the Na*/H™ exchanger in human endothelial
cells (6). G-CSF priming of neutrophils does not result in
changes in resting transmembrane electrical potential, levels
of intracellular free calcium, cytosolic pH, oF protein kinase
C translocation (7). In the murine leukemia cell line NFS-60,
G-CSF leads to increased binding of radiolabeled guanosine
triphosphate to isolated cell membranes (8), implicating a role
for guanine nucleotide-binding proteins in G-CSF signaling
More recently, G-CSF stimulation has been demonstrated to
result in early phosphorylation on tyrosine of proteins of
‘5-60 kDa in neutrophils and the murine factor-dependent
myeloid cel! lines 32Dc"3 and NFS-60 (ref. 9; D.J-T., un-
published data); 73~75 kDa in neutrophils, HL-60 cells, and
32De13 cells (ref. 10; DJ-T., unpublished data); 80-90 kDa
in neutrophils and 32Dei3 ceils (ref. 1; D.J-T., unpublished
data); 97 kDa in the factor-dependent human leukemic cell
tine AML-193 (12); and 115 kDa in neutrophils (13). These
results implicate @ role for nonteceptor protein-tyrosine
kinases (PTKs) in G-CSF signaling. The identity of the
PTK(s) associated with and activated by the G-CSER is
unknown.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

Calls, Neutrophils were obtained from healthy adult vol:
unteers as deseribed. Neutrophils were studied within 6 hr of
venipuncture. The murine cell ine 32Dc13 was grown in
Iscove's modified Dulbecco's medium (IMDM: GIBCO/
BRL) containing 10% fetal calf serum and 108% WEHT:
conditioned medium at 37°C with 5% COs, as described (4).
Cells were washed twice with sterile PBS and resuspended ia
serum and factor-ree IMDM supplemented with insulin and
transferrin for 4-10 hr at 37°C with 5% COs,

Reagents. Anti-Syk antiserum was raised in rabbits, using
either the C-terminal 28 amino acids ofthe porcine sequence
‘or a fusion protein containing the N-terminal unique se-
‘quence and the first SH2 domain of porcine Syk (13). The
former antiserum was superior for immune complex assays
(S.J.C., unpublished data) but did not immunobiot (R.L.G..
unpublished data, the latter antiserum did immunoblot Syk

‘Abbreviations: G-CSF, granulocyte colonystimulating factor; GM-
CSE, granulocyte-macrophage CSF, G-CSER, G-CSF. receptor:
IK, protein-tyrosine kinase; RT, room temperature; PVDF. poly:
nvitdene Nuerde).

To whom reprint requests should be addressed at: Biomedical
‘Science Tower, Koor Wi082,Pitsburgh Cancer Instiute, DeSoto
at O'Hara Strets, Pitsburgh, PA 15213,

