FF

Principal tvostigatorProgram Director (Last st, mic):

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH

Give the fowing information fr the kay personnel and consultants and colaborators. Begin with the principal
‘nvestigato/program director. Photocopy this page foreach person

ane POSTION TITLE
Sunil Kaul, Ph.D Research Associate

‘EDUGATION [Boia wih Baccarat or otal prtesinal eatin, uch a3 raring. and nce postdoctoral aking)

YEAR
INSTITUTION AND LOCATION. pecrce | cONFERRED FIELD OF STUDY
University of Kashmir, India B.Sc. 1983 Biology
University of Kashmir, India MSc. 1985 Biochem
Punjab University, India Ph.D. 1993 Molecular/
Biolog:

RESEARCH AND PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Concluding wih presen poston, lt, in xronologcal order, previous empoyment, experience, and
honors. Key personnel incle the principe! iveetigatr and any cher individuals who participate in he scientific development or execution of the project
Key personnel typical wil include allindvdvals wth doctoral o other professional degrees, butin some projects will include individuals atthe masters or

‘bavealaureate level provided they contribute ina subetantve way to the sientfic development or execution of the project. Include present membership on

‘any Federal Government pubic advisory committee Uist, In chronological ordo, he ies, a authors and complete references to al publications during the

‘aut throo years and to representative earer publications pertinent to this application. I the is of publcaions in the last three years exceeds two pages,

Selact the most pertineet publications. 00 NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES.

Professional Experience
1987-1991 + Reseach Fellow, Institute of Microbiol Technology,
Chandigarh, India
1992-1994 Research Associate, Dept. of Microbiology, Duke
University Medical Center, Durham, NC
1994-Present Research Associate, Dept. of Genetics, Duke University
Medical Center, Durham, NC
Honors
1987-1991 Junior and Senior Research Fellow, Council of Scientific
and Industrial Research, India

Natarajan, S., Kaul, S., Miron, A. and Bastia, D. (1993) A 27 kd protein of E. coli
promotes antitermination of replication in vitro a a sequence specific
replication terminus, Cell 72:113-120.

Kaul, S., Mohanty, B., Sahoo, T., Patel, I, Khan, $. and Bastia, D. (1994) The replication
terminator protein of the gram positive bacterium B. subtilis functions as a
polar contrahelicase in gram negative FE. coli. PNAS 91:11143-11147.

HS 36 (Rew B97) (Farm Page 6) Page
mie pages eondecuvely te butom rougher the appieatin Do arues tls sien 3 38.96

FF
