From:

Date:

‘Subject:

To:

ce:

File(s):

Note for Padoan, Art

Arwady, Marge

‘Thu, Aug 6, 1998 3:55 PM

Article of interestLight House

Anise, Roy; Beran, Dave; Johnson, Craig; Levy, Carolyn; Merlo, Ellen; Mikulay, Robert;
Szymancayk, Mike

Clary, John; Eastbum, Gary; Falvo, Jeff: Hopkins, Barry; Padoan, Art; Paoli, Pete; Rolland,
Rodger; Whalen, Roy

Clark Refng.'s Light House

Enclosed is a long article that I believe will be of interest to you, as it contains competitive.
information, industry events and opinions / perceptions of the trade of which we all should
be aware.

Because the atticle is so long and you may wish only to scan it, Ihave indicated by use of
bolder type the more interesting sections. The article is enclosed in its entirety. Ithas not
been altered or edited except for formatting to make it easier to read. Mention is made of the
McCain bill - the article evidently was written just before the vote on McCain.

Following are selected quotes taken from the article:

"That makes bars and tobacco shops like Light House the future home of promotion, It also
may give on-premise leaders RJR and Brown & Williamson an advantage over Philip Morris

". the four state settlements only address tobacco companies’ activities~not retailers or
agencies. Legislation that restricts only tobacco companies leaves room for retailers to
advertise and promote without restriction, so marketing agencies and retailers are poised to
take the lead in promotion."

Just being a bar isn't enough; it has to be a place where kids can't get in the door.” ‘That, in
essence, is the line in the sand.” [MN. AG's office]

"Philip Mortis declined to do special racks for a single store, so RJR and B&W have a rare
shot at besting Marlboro, At Light House, the No. I brand is shelved in the bach

™. when Martboro Gear goes away, they can rely on us for continuity programs with
Light House-branded gear."

"Some retailers say Philip Morris sales reps cite the company's market dominance as a reason
to go light on retail promotions, worried that the Federal Trade Commission would frown on
heavy retail promotions as an antitrust violation. Philip Morris headquarters says otherwise."

“Meanwhile, second-tier B&W is taking advantage of Philip Mortis' reluctance and driving
hard into bar promos.”

jut bars have become the forefront of the tobacco battle, and if it takes that kind of
jarestnaae to own them, it's worth it," [Re: B&W's 65,000 expensive guitar displays in
ars]

