[Vem “Appalied. cf

}

‘Smokers Rights
From: MMMYB@a0L com

Sont: Friday, July 14, 2000 7:54 PM
To: ‘Smokers Rights

Subject: Vem Appalied

‘Tam appaled atthe settlement these people received in Forda today. | am

{2 smoker, and have boon forthe past 48 years. | am aware of tho possible heal

th problems smoking might cause. No one is holding @ gun to my head meking me

smoke. | smoke because I choose to, and iving in this great county Ihave fr
dom of choice, And s0 do these people who sue, no one made them smoke

either. And I might add anyone who wishes to stop smoking aso has the same

2edom of choice. | have known just as many people who have gotten sick from

cancer, and died who never smoked as well es those who did smoke, They tll

Us a lol of iinesses are due to genetics lke cancer and heart decoaso.

| know a lol more people that nave suffered due to the rsuils of alcohol

Innocent children suffer from child abuse, and families are distorted asthe

result of alcohol. Imocent vices on our roads aro kiled every day as tho

Fesultof alcohol. My smoking does not cause me to loose control of my

feflexes, good judgment, or cause me to pass out behind the whoo! of a car.

{tis not poticaly correct to smoke, but tis poliicely correct to go

to cocktal parts, and afterwards got int a car and drive home. I don't se0

Happy Smoking Flour or Two for One Pack, advertisements. Happy Hour and Two

{or Onejust gives these people the opportunity to get twice 8s drunk without

spending as much money, end then get into their cars and drive home, You

can't walch any kind of eports event without beer advertisements, which

teaches our children that you cat enjoy sports without bee.

have even seen herein Florida, a billboard, wit en orange tree and cans

‘of Buawolser hanging from the tree, wy that's seying that a can of

Budweiser is as good for you es an orange, What a lesson to teech our young.

{four justice eystem is going o come down on smoking then the same should

be done to alcohol. have told my chidren that | should die from cancer

© not sue enyone, blaming lon smoking, because it was my choie to smoke,

‘and | chose not uit. | honestly do not believe smoking is the cause of el

nesses, however i a person Is detined to get one ofthese linasses,

‘hen smoking ust add insult to injury.

| just wanted to get some of these things off my chest, and thi is just the

sar, 65 | intend fo continue witing to anyone I can

Sincerely,

Margaret M. Bump
(6063 196th Terrace NV.
Clearwater, Fl, 33780

g080 esszs

