vate: 2/6/86

PROJECT TITLE: STUDY OF MARKET RESPONSE TO A REDUCED IGNTTION
CIGARETTE,

INVESTIGATOR: Dr. Gary T. Ford
Marketing Consultant
5310 Hampden Lane
Bethesda, WD 20814
Tel: (301) 654-3111 or (202) 885-1978

‘STATINENT OF WORK:

Proportion of the cigarette act
additives ay change the healt!
changes euch ae these should be taken into accouat in a benefit-cost analyste
Of the consequences of requiring lov-tgnition propensity cigarettes.

Ta support of « benefit-cost anelysis, the folloving taske vill be performed:

As 'A search vill be made of the marketing Literature for information in
support of analyzing connmer response.

2. A conceptual franework vill be provided for analysing con
Eo the proposed product aodificattonss and the likely candida
An the beaefit-cost analyats vill be identified.

1E Fesponses
for tnelusion

3, <i tmalysis, which shall be quantitative to the extent possible, of the
gffects on consimers of the proposed product aodifications Will be provideds
Sensitivity analyses will be condicted vhere warranted.

REPORTING:

On « continuing basts, the investigator will maintain close contact vith the
Applied Econoaics Group of NBS and be available for technics! consultation
when requested.

By May 31, 1986, a preliminary marketing analyeis vill be delivered to the
Techaical Study Group a8 part of a prélininary joint report on consumer
ueility tmpacte to be prepared in collaboration with Dr. Johm Browa, The
Felevant marketing inforeation will be reported, and the preliaiaaty
conceptual franevork of likely iteas to be facluded ta the analysts of
consumer response will be described.

By Aiguat 31, 1986, final marketing analyate will be delivered to the
Techaical Stody Group ae part of a jotat final report on consumer atility
Ampacts to be prepared in collaboration with Dr. John Brown. The final
conceptual franevork and the results of the aaiketing analysis will be
presented. Likely effects of the proposed product changes on consumers will
be reported, with explasation and {llustrationa.

4020212202
